# INTRODUCTION TO VISTAAR

VISTAAR - Virtually Integrated System to Access Agricultural Resources, VISTAAR is an open-source, interoperable and federated public network poised to revolutionize the agriculture sector

## About VISTAAR

VISTAAR - Virtually Integrated System to Access Agricultural Resources, VISTAAR is an open-source, interoperable and federated public network poised to revolutionise the agriculture sector. Its mission is to democratise and contextualise knowledge, empower farmer voices, and amplify the collective wisdom of the ecosystem through exponential AI. This dynamic network will play a pivotal role in transforming the agriculture sector by facilitating the discovery & fulfilment of verified agriculture content, best practices, and agri-skilling across diverse private and public provider platforms, ultimately driving innovation and progress in agriculture through a collaborative approach.

VISTAAR creates a two-way channel of engagement, participation, and representation in the agricultural sector, contributing to the Government of India's effort to double the income of farmers. By actively involving farmers in discussions and decision-making, VISTAAR seeks to understand their needs, successes, and challenges, empower them to share innovations and receive information to make informed decisions for their farms. A key value of the VISTAAR model is that it will enable a federated network of ecosystem contributors and collaborators (across information advisory, goods and services marketplace and credit services domains), that will ultimately drive quality and bring innovative practices to the fingertips of Farmers and Agriculture extension workers. Also, VISTAAR's network governance framework - driven collectively by MoAFW and state governments - will ensure there is seamless integration with India's other population-scale DPI efforts (such as UPI) and secure the interests of farmers.

VISTAAR's core architecture will also protect the data of the beneficiaries involved, align and bring standardisation to content quality across the board, and solve for future-proof innovation, integrity, and accessibility practices. VISTAAR will also be supported by an AI services pack, which will enable easy onboarding for both content owners and information seekers. This service pack will contain a set of evolving services that will enable decoupled information flow within the network between different users by providing a common set of protocols for content owners and information seekers. An AI layer will be able to parse content and user queries through natural language processing and improve the response quality by identifying and broadcasting user intent across the network, routing the query to relevant sources based on that intent.
